# The Value Shift of the Bitcoin Network

The bitcoin blockchain is the first crypto blockchain network, created by Satoshi Nakamoto, and it has been running non-stop since 2010. The bitcoin network consists of thousands of independent node operators (miners), who run server nodes, validate blocks and produce (or mine) new blocks. A reward scheme was designed so that each new block's builder is rewarded with a 'block subsidy', in the form of new bitcoin tokens (BTC). Namely, after a node operator has mined a new block by solving a mathematical puzzle, and consequently added a new block to the blockchain, a predetermined amount of BTC is generated and rewarded to that miner. The amount of subsidized BTC is not kept constant, but rather desiged to be halved roughly every four years (known as reward era). 

The block subsidy is the primary source of income for the node operators. The following table are examples of the BTC reward per block, total annual BTC rewarded, and the estimated total BTC revenues of all the miners for the last three reward eras. 

Year | Reward Era | BTC/block | BTC Rewarded | BTC Mid Price | BTC Revenue (Mil)
--- | --- | --- | --- |--- |--- 
2015 | 2 | 25 | 1312500 | 334 |  $438
2019 | 3 | 12.5 | 656250 | 8595 |  $5,640 
2023 | 4 | 6.25 | 328125 | 31800 |  $10,434

In the table, the BTC revenue is estimated as the product of the total BTC rewarded and the mid-price of BTC for that year. We don't know for sure the total costs of running the bitcoin network, but we know it has to be in the same order of magnitude as the total BTC revenue generated. 

In a few more reward eras, the BTC generated by each block is approaching $0$, but as can be seen in the table, the costs of running the BTC network will likely continue to grow. In order to support the blockchain network, we expect one of the following scenarios to occur:
* The BTC price has to grow exponentially with time
* The transaction fees have to be increased significantly
* A new way to incentivize the node operators will be found 

Next, we will examine each scenario and try to understand the required conditions and implications. But first, we want to see what will happen if block subsidy remains the primary sources of income of the miners in the coming decades.

### [The Long Term Price Requirement of BTC](BtcPrice.md)

